## FAQ

Frequently asked questions regarding to installation and usage of **FuSViz**.

__1. How to prepare input format for FuSViz?__

- FuSViz accepts three types of data as input: SV callings from RNA-seq/DNA-seq generated using illumina platform and mutation profile (i.e. small variants). Here, an in-house script **SV_standard** (see its usage in **Installation** section) is provided to convert raw SV callings from various finders to a uniform format, then aggregate callings of multiple samples together. In terms of SVs from RNA-seq data, numerous callers have been developed and there lacks of a standardization format for the output. In the processing of **SV_standard**, a few common features (e.g. gene name, breakpoint position, sample id, read support for SV event) present in output of most callers are extracted and standardized as an input format of FuSViz. In contrast, most of DNA-seq SV finders output callings in a standard VCF format, which is converted to bedpe format (a “simplified” version keeps some key fields in VCF file that are informative for FuSViz analysis) by **SV_standard**. Currently, output format of **YY** SV callers (STAR-fusion, Arriba, deFuse, FusionCatcher, SOAPFuse and Pizzly for RNA-seq; Menta, GRISSS, Lumpy, Delly and SvABA for DNA-seq) are well supported by **SV_standard**, and we will of course extend to more callers on basis of user’s requirement and feedback in the further.

__2. What are differences between SV callings from DNA-seq and RNA-seq, and their respective characteristics? Why to combine them?__

- Genomic SV at DNA level represents various types of large variations (e.g. deletions, insertions, duplications, inversions and translocations) that are related to the break, link, recombination and amplification of DNA strand. If it occurs in genic regions, a hybrid gene could be formed (so-called “fusion gene”). In case of breakpoint in intergenic regions, duplications and deletions can lead to an alteration of genomic regulatory elements (e.g. enhancers or TADs). One common phenomenon of SV rearrangement is to break up DNA sequence, which disrupts proper expression or translation of a gene (e.g. tumor suppressor), finally giving rise to a reduced activation or function loss of such gene.   
- In comparison, RNA-seq data is used to address whether a fusion gene could transcribe to a fusion transcript with an in-frame ORF and produce a putative chimeric protein. Although breakpoints of fusion genes usually occur in intron regions, the observed breakpoints of most fusion transcripts coincide with exon boundary due to RNA splicing mechanism, from which some breakpoint pairs show a higher prevalence than others. One important biological consequence of fusion transcripts is an activation of oncogenes, as the oncogenes often constitutes the downstream partner in fusion. Even when the oncogene is fused as upstream partner, the downstream partner can provide protein domains which enhance oncogenic function if read frame is intact. In addition, a few SV types, e.g. **read-through** and **trans-splicing**, are exclusively detected at RNA level because they are generated by RNA-mediated regulatory mechanism. A common limitation of RNA-seq data analysis is that the investigation of intergenic SV events is not available.  
- In short, the features of SV callings from DNA-seq and RNA-seq show complementary with each other. Thus, it is reasonable to combine them together to interpret and visualize SVs associated with oncological-relevant genes in context of cancer genomic and transcriptomic annotations.

__3. Are SV callings from the third-generation sequencing technology (e.g. PacBio or Nanopore platform) accepted by FuSViz.__

- Yes, the raw callings have to be processed by **SV_standard** before feeding in FuSViz. As PacBio represents a long-read sequencing technology, only “split” reads are used for SV detection and no “span” reads information is available in the output of SV callers. So, **SV_standard** will assign a “virtual” number to avoid any ‘NA’ or empty values in “span” column during processing.

__4. If I am only interested in copy number aberrations (CNAs), how could I make a filtration on SVs.__

- In general, CNAs show unusual amplifications and deletions of genomic regions in a chromosome. They represent intra-chromosome events and are in fact a subset of total SVs, which are tagged as **DUP** and **DEL** in the input format of FuSViz. Such an analysis is provided by clicking the button `DNA SV Track in seg` in Linear plot module. In addition, it can be done by using `SV_type` Select DropDown to control the type of SVs for customized analysis.

__5. Can it be possible to utilize FuSViz for analysis of a single sample and ‘tumor-normal’ pairwise samples?__

- Yes, there are two ways for it. First, SV callings or mutation profile from a single sample are allowed for input. Second, user could utilize `name` or `Sample` Select DropDown to customize their interested samples. Moreover, a few functinalities are provided to enhance the single sample analysis by allowing import of read alignment file (see **Appendix** section). However, a visualization strategy for "tumor-normal" pairwise samples is not supported for FuSViz currently.

__6. Is it possible for FuSViz to analyze SVs callings from Non-human organisms?__

- Not yet now, but we are working on it and trying to extend FuSViz to other model organisms (e.g. mouse and rat).

__7. Do SV callings in FuSViz input file include genotype information?__

- No, there are several reasons for it:  
	- Firstly, only a few of existed callers (around 1/3) provide genotype information of SVs in raw output.   
	- Secondly, even one tool has a functionality for genotyping SVs, and it actually depends on the type of SVs. In general, duplication and deletion can be genotyped relatively accurate. Sometimes, genotype of insertion and inversion can be inferred but less precision. It is still challenging to genotype translocation for any available tools.  
	- Thirdly, it is often difficult to obtain a genotype information if SV callings from multiple tools are merged, in particular when there are incongruent among different callers. In addition, FuSViz is mainly used for SV analysis of multiple samples and it is not crucial to have a genotype information available for that.  

__8. Does FuSViz have a functionality to allow alignment file (BAM or CRAM) as input?__

- As the main purpose of FuSViz is used to visualize and interpret SVs of multiple samples, it does not make sense to import read alignments of multiple samples. But alignment file (either from RNA-seq or DNA-seq or both) of one specific sample is allowed to load for a customized single-sample invesgitation in **Linear** and **Two-way** modules (see **Appendix**).

